Mixpanel documentation (#432)
configcat/docs: website/docs/integrations/mixpanel.mdx

---
id: mixpanel
title: Mixpanel - Monitor your feature flag change events and feature flag analytics
description: ConfigCat Mixpanel integration. This is a step-by-step guide on how to connect the ConfigCat feature flag service events to Mixpanel.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';
import CodeBlock from '@theme/CodeBlock';

## Overview

There are two available integration oppurtunities between ConfigCat and Mixpanel:
- [Monitoring your feature flag change events in Mixpanel with Annotations](#annotations)
- [Sending feature flag evaluation analytics to Mixpanel Experiments](#experiments)

## Monitoring your feature flag change events in Mixpanel with Annotations {#annotations}

Ensures that every setting change in ConfigCat is sent to Mixpanel as an <a href="https://docs.mixpanel.com/docs/reports/insights#annotations" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Annotation</a>.

<img src="/docs/assets/mixpanel/annotation.png" className="zoomable" alt="Mixpanel Annotation" />

### Installation

1. Have a <a href="https://mixpanel.com/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Mixpanel account.</a>

> 2. Create a Service account that has he role of at least Analyst. <img src="/docs/assets/mixpanel/service_account.png" className="zoomable" alt="mixpanel_service_Account" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a Service account that has at least an Analyst role. <img src="/docs/assets/mixpanel/service_account.png" className="zoomable" alt="mixpanel_service_Account" />
```

> 3. Open the <a href="https://app.configcat.com/product/integrations" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">integrations tab</a> on ConfigCat Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the <a href="https://app.configcat.com/product/integrations" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">integrations tab</a> on the ConfigCat Dashboard.
```

4. Click on Mixpanel's CONNECT button and set your Mixpanel Service Account's Username, Secret, your Project ID.
5. OPTIONAL - Set the proper server of your Mixpanel account. <a href="https://docs.mixpanel.com/docs/privacy/eu-residency" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">More about Mixpanel servers</a>.
6. You're all set. Go ahead and make some changes on your feature flags then check your annotations in Mixpanel.

### Un-installation

> 1. Open the <a href="https://app.configcat.com/product/integrations" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">integrations tab</a> on ConfigCat Dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the <a href="https://app.configcat.com/product/integrations" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">integrations tab</a> on the ConfigCat Dashboard.
```

6. You're all set. Go ahead and make some changes on your feature flags then check your annotations in Mixpanel.

### Un-installation

1. Open the <a href="https://app.configcat.com/product/integrations" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">integrations tab</a> on ConfigCat Dashboard.
2. Click on Mixpanel's DISCONNECT button.

### Annotation details

Every annotation sent to Mixpanel by ConfigCat has:

- **Integration ID:** configcat.
- **Date:** When the change happened
- **Description:** A brief summary of the change.

## Sending feature flag evaluation analytics to Mixpanel Experiments {#experiments}

Ensures that feature flag evaluations are logged into <a href="https://docs.mixpanel.com/docs/reports/apps/experiments" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Mixpanel Experiments</a>. With this integration, you can have advanced analytics about your feature flag usages, A/B test results.

### Setup

1. Install the ConfigCat and Mixpanel SDKs to your application.
2. Configure the ConfigCat SDK with your ConfigCat SDK key and the Mixpanel SDK with your Mixpanel token.

> 3. Subscribe to the `flagEvaluated` hook during the ConfigCat SDK initialization and send feature flag evaluation data to Mixpanel experiments. Examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In your code, subscribe to the `flagEvaluated` hook during the ConfigCat SDK initialization and send feature flag evaluation data to Mixpanel experiments. Examples:
```

        JSONObject event = messageBuilder.event(details.getUser().getIdentifier(), "$experiment_started", props);

        ClientDelivery delivery = new ClientDelivery();
        delivery.addMessage(event);
        mixpanel.deliver(delivery);
    });
});
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="android" label="Android">
```java
ConfigCatClient client = ConfigCatClient.get("#YOUR-SDK-KEY#", options -> {
    options.hooks().addOnFlagEvaluated(details -> {
        JSONObject props = new JSONObject();
        props.put("Experiment name", details.getKey());
        props.put("Variant name", details.getValue());
        props.put("Variation ID", details.getVariationId());
        mp.track("$experiment_started", props);
    });
});
```
</TabItem>

<TabItem value="ios" label="Swift (iOS)">
```swift
let client = ConfigCatClient.get(sdkKey: "#YOUR-SDK-KEY#") { options in
    options.hooks.addOnFlagEvaluated { details in
        Mixpanel.mainInstance().track(event:"$experiment_started", properties: [
            "Experiment name": details.key,
            "Variant name": details.value,
            "Variation ID": details.variationId,
        ])
    }
}
```
</TabItem>

</Tabs>

:::note

> If you are using Text feature flags with long text values (e.g. JSON values) that makes no sense to send into Mixpanel as a Variant, you can send the `variationId` as the `Variant name` to Mixpanel instead of the `value`.

Reviewer: Anything positive would be better instead of 'makes no sense':
- recommended to do this instead of that
- it might be a good idea to do this rather than that

Author: removed the makes sense part

> The `variationId` is a hashed version of the value and you can see the `variationId` on the ConfigCat Dashboard after turning on the _Show VariationIDs to support A/B testing_ 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `variationId` is a hashed version of the feature flag value and you can access the `variationId` on the ConfigCat Dashboard after turning on the _Show VariationIDs to support A/B testing_ 
```

<a href="https://app.configcat.com/product/preferences" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Product preference</a>.
:::

4. Deploy your application and wait for feature flag evaluations to happen so Experiments in Mixpanel could be populated.

### Usage with Experiments
Check your Experiments in Mixpanel. 

> TODO image, if we have access to the Experiments feature.

Reviewer: TODO

Author: Yepp, i'm waiting for the Experiments feature to be unlocked in our account so I can create the screenshots. I already put the do not merge yet tag to the PR. I hope i can fix this soon.
